# Benefits and Observations

1. Today, there’s a 6.5 month gap between when a paper is submitted to Oakland and when it is officially published.  There’s also a ~3 month gap between submission and notification.  With the new system, the gap between submission and notification will be 1.5 months, and the gap between submission and publication could be as little as 2 months.  With Revisions, it will more likely be 3-4 months between submission and publication, but that’s still more rapid, and will also result in significantly improved papers that might otherwise have been rejected.

2. If you measure between completion of the research and publication, the improvement is more dramatic. In the current system, any idea completed after mid-November must wait up to 12 months just for submission to the next S&P. Submitting, instead, to the next top conference (USENIX Security) lowers the gap to 3 months, which is still significant. With the proposed system, authors will be able to submit a paper within a month of its completion date.

3. By delaying the start of the steady state system until June, 2017, we’ll have a full year to flesh out all of the details in a transparent manner based on input from the community.  We will also have the opportunity to “abort” the transition at the 2017 business meeting if the system looks problematic (for example, if we cannot find enough PC members willing to participate in the new format).

4. The last possible deadline to submit a paper and have it appear at the conference will be January 1st.  However, only papers that are accepted without Revisions will be accepted in time.  If Revisions are required, then papers must be submitted by December 1st.  Even then, authors will be gambling that the Revisions requested will be small enough to be addressed in two weeks or less.  The much safer option will be to submit by November 1st, or ideally, even earlier.

5. This year, the gap between the notification from S&P and the submission deadline of USENIX Security was 11 days. The situation is similar for any other consecutive pair of conferences in the "top conference" circuit. This leads to rapid resubmission of papers, starving authors of the time needed to address reviewer comments. In turn, this decreases the quality of the papers being submitted, increases the number of rejected papers (and the frustration of both the reviewers and the authors), and propagates the resubmission cycle.
