FAQ.md, before:

# FAQ

1. **Current practice is to solicit additional reviews for borderline papers or those with high variance in scores.  Are we giving up on that?**
   1. No.  After the first round of reviews, chairs will have discretion to solicit additional reviews from other PC members and/or external reviewers, while still making every effort to ensure a timely review process.

1. **How will these changes impact the volume of submissions to IEEE S&P?**
   1. Obviously at this point, we can only speculate.  VLDB and PETS both saw submission volume increase after they moved to a similar model.  Assuming this happens for IEEE S&P, we will likely need to increase the size of the PC.  We would also expect additional pressure on presentation time at the conference itself.

1. **Are we giving up on filtering low-quality papers with only two reviews?**
   1. No.  Chairs or Associate chairs may use their discretion to assign only two reviews to papers that appear likely to be Rejected.

1. **Does making this change convert the Symposium into a journal?**
   1. No.  While we are borrowing elements of the journal review process, the Symposium will still be held annually, and papers that are accepted through this process will still be described as being part of the Proceedings of the Symposium.  It’s possible that at some point the community will decide to convert this into a journal publication instead, but that remains a separate decision.

1. **Will there still be a PC meeting?**
    1. A physical PC meeting offers several benefits:
        1. Networking
            1. Amongst PC members
            2. Exposure for new PC members
    1. Standards
        1. Setting uniform standards across areas (e.g., for quality and ethics)
        2. Helping new PC members learn community standards
    1. Allow PC members to learn about trends in the community
        
    While these are important benefits, note that all but ii.a benefit only (or primarily) members of the PC itself, a rather small subset of the overall security community.  It also comes at the cost of two long days of work plus associated travel time and expenses.
    We hope that the conference itself is a valuable venue for networking and learning about the state of the art in the community.  Nonetheless, we are interested in trying to preserve some of the benefits discussed above, particularly maintaining uniform standards across areas.  The current plan is to hold a PC meeting immediately preceding the conference itself to  decide on Distinguished Paper Awards and a larger pool of Honorable Mentions.
   Possible alternatives include virtual PC meetings or holding a PC meeting to assign presentation slots of varying lengths to the papers that have been accepted to date.

1. **How will we maintain transparency in the review process?**
   1. As with the traditional review process, once a PC member submits their reviews, they will be able to see reviews and discussion for all other papers.  
   1. Lists of papers that seem likely to be accepted or rejected will be disseminated to the PC throughout the process so as to encourage more interest in the process.
   1. Additional non-reviewer PC members will be assigned to each paper to evaluate the reviews and participate in the discussion.
   1. As discussed below, we will gather data before and after the transition in order to quantitatively evaluate the effectiveness of the new process.

1. **Are we keeping the special bulk-submission handling, introduced for 2016?**
   1. For 2017 only; after we transition, it will no longer apply

1. **Are we keeping the appeals process?**
   1. Yes, but only for rejected papers.  Those papers can appeal to the PC chairs in 2017, and to the Associate Chairs after the transition.

1. **Are we keeping the Student PC review process?**
   1. Yes, we will try to repeat at least in 2017.  Unclear for longer term.

1. **How will this affect my students’ ability to get jobs, or my ability to get tenure?**
   1. Enabling students to get jobs (or faculty to get tenure) should be the consequence of performing high quality science.  The new process should enhance both.  Other communities who have adopted this approach have seen a noted improvement in paper quality.  The new process should also allow faster turnaround, making it more likely that you and/or your students can include a paper acceptance on a CV.

1. **How will we know if this new format is achieving its goals?**
   1. We expect that the definition of success metrics will be an evolving process, with different metrics being used over time.
   2. Immediately, we will start collecting quality metrics as part of the reviewing process, to assess whether authors and reviewers feel that both reviews and papers are improving in quality, as a result of these changes.
   3. After a few years, we---like other conferences that have adopted a VLDB-like model---can survey quantitative metrics, such as the number of citations that papers are getting, etc., as a proxy for their quality.  
   4. One ongoing metric we will use is based on surveys of the IEEE S&P community, and its perception of the different aspects of concerns, such as the quality of the review process and of the accepted papers.  Our plan is to perform such surveys annually, with the first one being done before the implementation of any changes.
   5. Ultimately, if we decide the new format is not working, then a vote of the business meeting will be held to revert back to the old submission process (or possibly some alternate put forward in the interim).

1. **Will reviewers be able to consistently meet deadlines?**
   1. Based on conversations with PETS and VLDB chairs, this hasn't, thus far, been a major issue for them.  They find that while the PC chairs do more "nagging" work, the reviews do generally get done on time, a process that's helped by the fact that the workload is so much lighter for each deadline.  After all, some reviewers will always choose to procrastinate, but if the deadline is two days way, it's still quite feasible to read and review 1-3 papers, whereas at that point, it's impossible to be timely with 15-20.  

1. **How will this impact other security conferences?**
   1. We do expect that other conferences will be affected, although it’s hard to say exactly how at this time.  
   2. By proceeding with this plan for IEEE S&P, the community can experiment without committing all of our conferences to a new format.  While they may also eventually choose to adopt this model, we don’t see a need to make IEEE S&P’s move dependent on similar moves elsewhere.  
   3. We will discuss our plans with the other major security conferences, and encourage them to contribute to this open discussion process, to cover any issues that they identify.

1. **Will people really submit to deadlines other than the last one necessary to be included in the physical conference?**
   1. This is a possible risk, but we don’t think it will be as bad as might be expected.  First, if authors have a complete paper ready to go, then they can submit it immediately and expect to get feedback and eventually an online publication faster than if they wait until the last deadline.  Second, data from VLDB suggests submissions do tend to spread throughout the year.  The 2015 VLDB received 710 submissions during the year, of which just under 200 were first submitted at the final cutoff date, but the other 510+ were relatively distributed throughout the year (see the graph on slide 15 for more details: http://www.vldb.org/2015/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/VLDB2015-PC-Presentation.pdf)

1. **How do we ensure a balanced program at the conference when we’re accepting papers in an ongoing fashion?**
   1. In general, each paper will be evaluated on its own merits, with no a-priori decision of acceptable coverage, within the constraints of the topics covered at IEEE S&P, as enumerated in the Call for Papers.
   2. However, as part of this plan, the PC chairs and PC will seek an explicit mandate for crafting the best possible conference given the set of accepted papers—with that mandate granted by TC and business meeting—in order to have the flexibility to adjust to any unforeseen imbalance in accepted papers
   3. An in-person PC meeting to allocate speaking time at the conference might be one way to address this.  Other ideas are welcome.

Commit message:

Update a few answers, since the 2017 process has concluded

FAQ.md, after:

# FAQ

1. **Current practice is to solicit additional reviews for borderline papers or those with high variance in scores.  Are we giving up on that?**
   1. No.  After the first round of reviews, chairs will have discretion to solicit additional reviews from other PC members and/or external reviewers, while still making every effort to ensure a timely review process.

1. **How will these changes impact the volume of submissions to IEEE S&P?**
   1. Obviously at this point, we can only speculate.  VLDB and PETS both saw submission volume increase after they moved to a similar model.  Assuming this happens for IEEE S&P, we will likely need to increase the size of the PC.  We would also expect additional pressure on presentation time at the conference itself.

1. **Are we giving up on filtering low-quality papers with only two reviews?**
   1. No.  Chairs or Associate chairs may use their discretion to assign only two reviews to papers that appear likely to be Rejected.

1. **Does making this change convert the Symposium into a journal?**
   1. No.  While we are borrowing elements of the journal review process, the Symposium will still be held annually, and papers that are accepted through this process will still be described as being part of the Proceedings of the Symposium.  It’s possible that at some point the community will decide to convert this into a journal publication instead, but that remains a separate decision.

1. **Will there still be a PC meeting?**
    1. A physical PC meeting offers several benefits:
        1. Networking
            1. Amongst PC members
            2. Exposure for new PC members
    1. Standards
        1. Setting uniform standards across areas (e.g., for quality and ethics)
        2. Helping new PC members learn community standards
    1. Allow PC members to learn about trends in the community
        
    While these are important benefits, note that all but ii.a benefit only (or primarily) members of the PC itself, a rather small subset of the overall security community.  It also comes at the cost of two long days of work plus associated travel time and expenses.
    We hope that the conference itself is a valuable venue for networking and learning about the state of the art in the community.  Nonetheless, we are interested in trying to preserve some of the benefits discussed above, particularly maintaining uniform standards across areas.  The current plan is to hold a PC meeting immediately preceding the conference itself to  decide on Distinguished Paper Awards and a larger pool of Honorable Mentions.
   Possible alternatives include virtual PC meetings or holding a PC meeting to assign presentation slots of varying lengths to the papers that have been accepted to date.

1. **How will we maintain transparency in the review process?**
   1. As with the traditional review process, once a PC member submits their reviews, they will be able to see reviews and discussion for all other papers.  
   1. Lists of papers that seem likely to be accepted or rejected will be disseminated to the PC throughout the process so as to encourage more interest in the process.
   1. Additional non-reviewer PC members will be assigned to each paper to evaluate the reviews and participate in the discussion.
   1. As discussed below, we will gather data before and after the transition in order to quantitatively evaluate the effectiveness of the new process.

1. **Are we keeping the special bulk-submission handling, introduced for 2016?**
   1. No, in the new submission model, we do not plan to have special rules for bulk submissions.

1. **Are we keeping the appeals process?**
   1. Yes, but only for rejected papers.  Those papers can appeal to the Associate Chairs.

1. **Are we keeping the Student PC review process?**
   1. At present, it is unclear whether it will make sense to hold a Student PC meeting, given the new submission process.  

1. **How will this affect my students’ ability to get jobs, or my ability to get tenure?**
   1. Enabling students to get jobs (or faculty to get tenure) should be the consequence of performing high quality science.  The new process should enhance both.  Other communities who have adopted this approach have seen a noted improvement in paper quality.  The new process should also allow faster turnaround, making it more likely that you and/or your students can include a paper acceptance on a CV.

1. **How will we know if this new format is achieving its goals?**
   1. We expect that the definition of success metrics will be an evolving process, with different metrics being used over time.
   2. Immediately, we will start collecting quality metrics as part of the reviewing process, to assess whether authors and reviewers feel that both reviews and papers are improving in quality, as a result of these changes.
   3. After a few years, we---like other conferences that have adopted a VLDB-like model---can survey quantitative metrics, such as the number of citations that papers are getting, etc., as a proxy for their quality.  
   4. One ongoing metric we will use is based on surveys of the IEEE S&P community, and its perception of the different aspects of concerns, such as the quality of the review process and of the accepted papers.  Our plan is to perform such surveys annually, with the first one being done before the implementation of any changes.
   5. Ultimately, if we decide the new format is not working, then a vote of the business meeting will be held to revert back to the old submission process (or possibly some alternate put forward in the interim).

1. **Will reviewers be able to consistently meet deadlines?**
   1. Based on conversations with PETS and VLDB chairs, this hasn't, thus far, been a major issue for them.  They find that while the PC chairs do more "nagging" work, the reviews do generally get done on time, a process that's helped by the fact that the workload is so much lighter for each deadline.  After all, some reviewers will always choose to procrastinate, but if the deadline is two days way, it's still quite feasible to read and review 1-3 papers, whereas at that point, it's impossible to be timely with 15-20.  

1. **How will this impact other security conferences?**
   1. We do expect that other conferences will be affected, although it’s hard to say exactly how at this time.  
   2. By proceeding with this plan for IEEE S&P, the community can experiment without committing all of our conferences to a new format.  While they may also eventually choose to adopt this model, we don’t see a need to make IEEE S&P’s move dependent on similar moves elsewhere.  
   3. We will discuss our plans with the other major security conferences, and encourage them to contribute to this open discussion process, to cover any issues that they identify.

1. **Will people really submit to deadlines other than the last one necessary to be included in the physical conference?**
   1. This is a possible risk, but we don’t think it will be as bad as might be expected.  First, if authors have a complete paper ready to go, then they can submit it immediately and expect to get feedback and eventually an online publication faster than if they wait until the last deadline.  Second, data from VLDB suggests submissions do tend to spread throughout the year.  The 2015 VLDB received 710 submissions during the year, of which just under 200 were first submitted at the final cutoff date, but the other 510+ were relatively distributed throughout the year (see the graph on slide 15 for more details: http://www.vldb.org/2015/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/VLDB2015-PC-Presentation.pdf)

1. **How do we ensure a balanced program at the conference when we’re accepting papers in an ongoing fashion?**
   1. In general, each paper will be evaluated on its own merits, with no a-priori decision of acceptable coverage, within the constraints of the topics covered at IEEE S&P, as enumerated in the Call for Papers.
   2. However, as part of this plan, the PC chairs and PC will seek an explicit mandate for crafting the best possible conference given the set of accepted papers—with that mandate granted by TC and business meeting—in order to have the flexibility to adjust to any unforeseen imbalance in accepted papers
   3. An in-person PC meeting to allocate speaking time at the conference might be one way to address this.  Other ideas are welcome.
