# Philosophy & Motivation

The primary goal of the IEEE Symposium on Security & Privacy (and computer science conferences more broadly) is to enable the timely dissemination of high quality science.  Hence, our goal in revamping the Symposium’s submission and publication process it to enhance the quality and timeliness of the scientific results we disseminate.  One aspect of this is to enhance the quality of the reviewing process, since peer-review is one of our primary tools for identifying high-quality work.

Unfortunately, today’s review process reduces the quality of the scientific results we publish and creates excessive work for both authors and reviewers.  With a single deadline each year, authors often face the dilemma of submitting half-baked results (in the hopes that they will be accepted via some miracle), or waiting another year before they can submit to the Symposium again (or at least three months for the USENIX Security deadline); either choice detracts from the timely dissemination of high quality science.  Authors may fear that, faced with a mountain of reviews to process in bulk, some reviewers will look for reasons to reject papers, rather than identifying positive aspects or looking for ways a paper could become a stronger result.  When authors resubmit their work (either to a future Symposium or to other venues), they typically face a new set of reviewers who may evaluate their work on entirely different grounds from the initial set of reviewers.  Reviewers, in turn, who receive such revised work, do not have any input from the authors as to what has changed (or why some comments have been ignored), and hence waste time rereading such papers in their entirety and guessing at author intent.  As our community grows, this process is becoming unsustainable.

Thus, our proposed review process has two key goals.  First we want to enable researchers to submit results when they are ready, rather than rushing to meet an annual deadline.  Second, we want the review process to be more constructive and efficient, with reviewers focused on what it would take to make each paper a high-quality result, rather than searching for reasons to reject papers.  We do not, however, intend in any way to lower the Symposium’s high expectations for published results.  If anything, we expect the new process will result in higher quality reviews and higher quality published papers.

Concretely, we propose a VLDB-like model, i.e., a review process featuring regular (e.g., monthly) submission deadlines with all papers that are accepted by an annual cutoff point invited to appear at the Symposium (hence, we will remain a conference, not a journal).  The review process will ensure rapid turnaround while giving authors the opportunity to make real revisions that will be evaluated by the original reviewers.  We anticipate a similar overall acceptance ratio (limited primarily by the duration of the conference), although possibly a bit higher given the new opportunity to improve papers through revisions.  
